Alright it's time for another
challenge this is the some three and
five challenge. So the challenge is to
create a for statement using a range of
numbers from 1 to 1,000 inclusive,
you want to sum all the numbers when you're
looping through that can be divided with
both the numbers 3 and also with 5, now
for those numbers that meet the above
conditions in other words that are found
to be divisible by both 3 and also
divisible with 5, you want to print out
that number and also you want to break
out of the loop
once you find five numbers that meet
those above conditions and then also
after breaking out of the loop print the
sum of the numbers the total numbers
that you found that have met those above
conditions and for this one just type
all your code into the main method.
Now the text for this challenge is in the
resources section of the video so you
can go ahead and download that if you
need to at this point pause the video
and see how you go with that challenge,
once you're finished come back and you
can check out my solution so pause the
video now. Alright so how do you know
hopefully managed to solve that
challenge let's see if we can actually
solve it now on screen. Alright so what
we're going to do first is you're going
to start by declaring a count variable
that represents the counter found
numbers, so we need one for that because
we know we need to break out of the loop
once we find five numbers that meet the
conditions then we also need a variable
for the sum because we're going to be
recording the sum of those numbers, so
that's so creative variable variable for
both remembering that we're you just
using the main method for this one for
this exercise, so to start with int count
for our count equals zero initializing
that to zero and for our sum I'm going
to call it sum its sum equal to zero and
I just place it to make it more readable.
Alright so next we need a loop we're
going to arrange or loop rather through
a range of numbers between 1 and 1000
with a for loop so for that we're going
to put 4 and in parentheses int i equals
1 semicolon and we need to use the range
1000 so it's going to be less than or
equal to 1000 since we learned a both
fair semicolon i plus plus there's
our loop open a code block
curly brace the right ones added
automatically, so now what we have to do
is sum all numbers that are divisible by
both 3 and divisible by 5 but then we
also need to increment the count and
print the number that we found so
firstly let's start by checking if the
number is divisible by 3 and 5 at the
same time so we can do that by typing if
I'm going to type 2 left parenthesis I'm
going to put i will use the remainder
operator so remainder operator 3 is
equal to 0, 2 equal signs closing
parentheses space in the end two two
ampersands then left parenthesis I
remainder operator 5 equals 0 and 2
closing parenthesis right parenthesis
another amazement a code block, so I'm
using extra parentheses there for each
condition so it's easy to read and to
make sure we don't have any issues with
operator precedence so the first
condition I've got here it's checking if
the number is divisible by 3 in other
words if the number divided by 3 doesn't
have any remainder then we've got the
end operator and then we've got the
second part of the test is doing the
same but for the number 5 checking to
see if this number divisible by 5 has a
remainder of 0 and so it divides evenly
and remember that the end operator here
is only true when both of these
conditions are true so both 3 & 5 have
to be true before we get to execute the
code in our code block which is going to
be here so if we have found that to be
true then we want to increase our count
a count plus plus semicolon and then we
want to sum what we found so far because
ultimately we need to print that some
out so it'll be sum plus equals i,
adding i to that and then finally what
we want to do is print out the number i
so I'm going to type s out tab and we're
going to put found number equals plus i
so we're pretty at the value of i as
well so again we're using count there so
that when we get to five matches we can
do a break and we're summing the value
as we go through so that we can print it
out once we've actually exited the for
loop so the next thing to do then after
this if statement is to do a test to see
whether we've actually found five
numbers we can do that with if
parentheses count is equal to two equal
signs five open a code block and then we
just go into top break so if we found
five matches we're going to break out of
the for loop in Tolley and that would
mean that the execution will come down
to here outside of the fall of the next
line and after the for loop at this
point now the final step is to print out
the sum so outside of the folded after
that last I'll write curly brace you're
just kind of print out the sum we can do
that with some equals a couple quotes
around that plus some so once the loop
breaks or stops processing the code will
jump after the closing basically the
code will jump down to the outside of
this right curly brace here and the next
line of code which will be our loan have
code here that's printing out the sum
and that should be that, so let's
actually run this to make sure it works
I'm going to right click in here select
run and I'm just going to move this down
to the bottom so you can see it a bit
better you can see they've got fair
number equals 15 30 45 1675 and some
equals two to five so that's it that's
all the numbers said them all to or
shouldn't say all the numbers the first
five numbers that can be divided by both
3 and divided by 5 without any remainder
and then the sum of those five numbers
that are outputted is 225 which is correct
75 plus 60 135 plus 45 is 180 plus 30 is
210 plus 15 is 225 so sum equals 225 is
correct, so that's the challenge I'm
going to end this video for now and just
move on now to the next one.